What did you learn during this project?

During this project we learned how to code with someone else. We learned how to effectively
communicate in a virtual setting, which allowed us to finish our project on time. This chess
project also allowed us to learn about the minimax algorithm and alpha-beta pruning while
simultaneously enabling us to refresh our skills on designing efficient class structures and
simplifying our code.


What did you enjoy during this project?

As always, seeing your code actually work is a great joy. Getting each part to work perfectly,
whether it's finishing the minimax algorithm so we don't have to debug it anymore or something much
simpler like getting the words in the menu to be the right color, is a fantastic feeling. Also,
just watching the minimax bots play against each other is fun, as is beating the easy-level bot.


What did you find challenging or frustrating during this project?

Communication was the main challenge we faced. We often found ourselves working on the same thing at
the same time without even realizing it. However, as this project progressed we began to talk much
more frequently and quickly overcame that challenge. Regarding our implementation, visualizing the
minimax algorithm's decisions was hard because it was unlike anything we had ever worked with before.
It was difficult to confirm whether or not it had the correct behavior which made the debugging process
painfully slow.


What did you find particularly helpful for your learning during this project?

Starting early! This project was much more demanding than we had initially anticipated, so coming
up with a plan early on and starting work on it right away was particularly valuable. This gave us
the necessary time to learn everything we needed to learn, which allowed us to complete this
project to our highest standards. Another thing that was helpful was the fact that we had a
teammate. We were constantly finding new ways to make each other's code more efficient and in the
process learn something new.